This is a photo of a leaf affected by Tomato bacterial mottle disease. The leaves are only affected by Tomato bacterial mottle disease and do not suffer from tomato mosaic virus disease or tomato early blight tomato late blight tomato septoria leaf spot、tomato yellow leaf curl virus、two-spotted spider mite、tomato leaf mold And tomato target spot. The following is knowledge about Tomato bacterial mottle disease:
Tomato bacterial mottle disease is caused by Pseudomonas syringae tomato leaf spot disease pathogenic type, occurring in tomato disease. It mainly affects leaves, stems, flowers, petioles and fruits, especially leaf margins and immature fruits. The disease produces dark brown or black spots with a yellow halo around them. Stem disease also produces black spots, but generally no halo. Fruit disease, the first slightly elevated green dots, green dots become brown, sunken. 
Tomato bacterial mottle disease is one of the most important diseases affecting tomato production worldwide. The disease onset of plant growth is slow, fruit expansion is hindered, can affect the quality of fruit. After the disease occurs, the general yield reduction of 10-30%, serious plots of yield reduction of more than 50%.
Tomato bacterial mottle disease prevention and control methods are mainly to strengthen quarantine, to prevent the introduction of bacterial seeds into non-infected areas; selection of disease-resistant varieties, seed disinfection before sowing; the implementation of crop rotation, strengthen the cultivation management. The early stage of the disease can also be sprayed with chemicals to prevent and control the disease, 7-10 days spraying 1 time, continuously with 2-3 times.
Alias: tomato bacterial spot disease, tomato “oil disease”, tomato bacterial microspot, tomato bacterial brown spot 
Pathogen: Pseudomonas syringae tomato leaf spot pathogenic type 
Harmed parts: leaves, stems, flowers, petioles and fruits 
Pathogen characteristics: tomato bacterial spotting pathogen Pseudomonas syringae tomato leaf spot pathogenic type (scientific name: Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato), is a bacterium. The pathogen is short culm-shaped, unicellular, straight or slightly curved, and measures (0.1-1) micrometers by (1.5-4) micrometers. Gram stain negative. Can produce green fluorescence on the medium containing sucrose.
Symptoms: Bacterial mottle disease of tomato mainly affects leaves, stems, flowers, petioles and fruits, especially leaf margins and immature fruits. Seedlings and adult plants can be infected. Seedlings: the beginning of watery dots, then expanded into dark brown irregular spots, no whorls, surrounded by a yellow halo, high humidity, the late spot visible shiny pus. Stem: first formed rice grain size water-soaked spots, lesions gradually increased, expanding, with the expansion of the lesion color from transparent color to gray, then brown, and finally formed a black-brown, the shape from the spots expanding into an ellipse, and finally the lesions in succession to form an irregular shape. Under humid conditions, white fungal pus appears in the late stage of the disease spot. Leaf: Leaf infection, from the lower old leaves first, and then spread to the upper part of the plant, the onset of the initial first produced dark brown to black irregular spots, 2-4 mm in diameter, with or without yellow halo around the spots. Petiole and culm: Similar to leaf symptoms, black spots are produced, but without a yellow halo around the spots. The spots tend to form plaques, and in severe cases can blacken segments of the stalk. When infesting flower buds, many black spots are formed on the sepals, and when the black spots are in succession, the sepals will dry up and fail to bloom normally. Fruit: The small spots in the early stage of young fruit are slightly elevated, and the green color around the spots tends to remain for a long time when the fruit is nearly ripe. The flesh of the fruit near the spots is slightly sunken, black around the spots, light-colored in the middle, and slightly sunken. Bacterial spot disease symptoms are similar to those of bacterial scab, the main difference is that the fruit does not rot after being infected by this pathogen, and the stalks and leaf vascular bundles develop, and the xylem does not turn brown.
Distribution range: tomato bacterial mottle disease was first reported in the United States in 1993, and then in South Africa, India, Australia, Bulgaria, France, the former Soviet Union, Brazil and other more than 20 countries, and caused serious losses. 1990s ago, the disease was not found in mainland China, and was only recorded in Taiwan Province. Since 1997, it has occurred successively in Beijing, Henan, Jilin, Shanxi, Liaoning, Hebei, Fujian and Gansu in China. 
Infestation cycle: tomato bacterial mottle disease pathogen can overwinter on tomato plants, seeds, disease residues, soil and weeds, and can survive for 20 years on dry seeds, which can spread with seeds over long distances. Sowing germ-carrying seeds, seedlings can develop the disease, seedlings after the disease into the field, and through the rain, insects, agricultural operations spread, so as to lead to epidemics, in the field as long as the initial 10% of plants onset of disease, can infect the entire plot. After the onset of the disease in the field, the pathogenic bacteria through rain back splash, rain dew or watering in the protected shed and other infectious pathways, in the plant surface with water droplets or water film conditions, from the plant natural stomata or wound invasion, in the field for many times repeated reinfestation, exacerbating the damage. The pathogen overwinters in the field with the residual tissue of the diseased plant, soil ponds and weeds, and the pathogen can survive for a long time in the dry residual tissue and become a source of early infestation in the following year.
Epidemiological pattern: early spring temperatures are low, rainy, plots in low-lying, poor drainage, too long a time to close the greenhouse, the surface of the plant has water droplets or wet state, is an important condition leading to the onset of tomato bacterial blotch disease. Sowing seed with bacteria can cause seedling disease. 
Prevention and control methods: 
Agricultural control: 
Quarantine: because the disease is an important seed-borne disease, it is necessary to strengthen the quarantine to prevent the transmission of bacterial seeds into non-infected areas. Especially China introduced more seeds, this part of the seed should be strengthened quarantine, to avoid the introduction of new strains of bacteria into China.
Seed selection: choose disease-resistant varieties, such as Pink Du 312, Gold Dust 108 and so on. 
Crop rotation: the onset of the field and non-cabbage vegetables to implement more than 3 years of crop rotation, in order to reduce the source of field pathogens.
Strengthen cultivation management: timely pruning and forking, removing diseased and old leaves, removing disease residues and taking them out of the field to be buried or burned; timely cleanup of field residues and weeds around the field after harvesting and burying them outside of the field, and deep turning of the soil; avoiding pruning and forking and other farming operations when the field humidity is high; paying attention to the ventilation and controlling the temperature and humidity of the shed; avoiding injuring the roots when planting; reasonable planting and increasing the field permeability; using drip irrigation and furrow irrigation to avoid the disease and to avoid the disease. Drip irrigation and furrow irrigation, try to avoid flood irrigation and sprinkler irrigation.
Chemical control: 
Seed treatment: soak the seeds in warm water at 55℃ for 30 minutes, or in 0.6% acetic acid solution for 24 hours, or in 5% hydrochloric acid for 5-10 hours, or in 1.05% sodium hypochlorite for 20-40 minutes. After soaking the seeds, wash off the liquid with water and dry them slightly before germination.
Fumigation to get rid of the bacteria: If the disease has occurred in protected tomatoes, use 60-75 kg/ha of sulfur in the harvest garden, fumigate the seedlings together with the pathogen, and then pull out the diseased plants. At the same time to do a good job of disease residual plants, do not throw anywhere. 
Spraying agent control: spraying agent control at the early stage of the disease, optional agents are: 72% agricultural streptomycin 3,000-4,000 times liquid, 88% hydromycin 1500-2,000 times liquid, 3% mesocarpine wettable powder 600-800 times liquid, 77% copper hydroxide wettable powder 400-500 times liquid, 50% amphioxus fertilizer copper (DT) wettable powder 400-500 times liquid, 7-10 days to the end of the disease, the disease will not be treated. 500 times liquid, 7-10 days spraying 1 time, continuous use 2-3 times.