This is a photo of a leaf affected by tomato yellow leaf curl virus. The leaves are only affected by tomato yellow leaf curl virus and do not suffer from tomato mosaic virus disease or tomato early blight tomato late blight tomato septoria leaf spot、Tomato bacterial mottle disease、two-spotted spider mite、tomato leaf mold And tomato target spot. The following is knowledge about tomato yellow leaf curl virus:
Tomato yellow leaf curl virus disease is caused by tomato yellow leaf curl virus, occurring in tomato disease. Tomato plants infected with the disease at the beginning of the main performance for the plant growth retardation or stagnation, internodes become shorter, obviously dwarfed, leaves become smaller, thicker, brittle and hard leaves, folds, upward curls, deformation, leaf edges to the veins area yellowing, to the plant on the upper leaf symptoms are typical of the lower part of the old leaf symptoms are not obvious; plants infected with the disease in the latter part of the fruiting is very little, the fruit becomes smaller, expansion rate is very slow; ripening of fruit can not be normal turn color.
Tomato yellow leaf curl virus disease is one of the main diseases of tomato, but also a very strong killing disease, the incidence of the disease in China has gradually expanded. According to statistics, the onset of the lot is not serious, tomato production will be reduced by 20-30%; the onset of the more serious, tomato production can be reduced by 50% or even no harvest, will have a serious impact on China's tomato planting industry, which can cause huge economic losses to the farmers' production.
Tomato yellow varroa virus disease prevention and control should follow the “prevention-oriented, integrated control” approach to plant protection, adhere to the “agricultural control, physical control, chemical control as a supplement” principle of prevention and control.
Pathogen: Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) 
Harmed parts: leaves 
Disease history: Tomato yellow leaf curl virus originated in the Middle East and the Mediterranean Basin, is the most destructive tropical and subtropical regions of a tomato virus disease. The pathogen was first found in 1939 in Israel along the Jordan River, and was officially named in 1964, with the sooty fly being the only means of transmission. 2000 or so, the virus was introduced into China, first found in Taiwan, and gradually spreading rapidly from south to north and east to west. 2003, it was found in Guangxi and Yunnan, and has been found successively since then in Shanghai, Zhejiang, and Jiangsu, etc., due to its strong prevalence, heavy damage, and high risk. The virus is highly prevalent, hazardous, fierce and fast spreading, rapidly spreading throughout China.
Pathogen characteristics: tomato yellow leaf curl virus pathogen for tomato yellow leaf curl virus (Tomato Yellow Leaf Curl Virus, TYLCV). The virus is a single stranded DNA virus (single stranded DNA, ssDNA), belonging to the genus of golden mosaic virus, with a wide range of hosts, which can harm a variety of economic crops. Dictyostelium viruses are able to rapidly adapt to their environments through a high rate of silent recombination of genes and spread rapidly throughout the region. Due to the high frequency of gene mutation of this virus, the tomato yellow variegated leaf virus strains are more differentiated.
Symptoms: tomato plants are more likely to be infected with tomato yellowing leaf curl virus disease in the early stages of growth, the main symptom is that the leaves on the plant become smaller, the edge of the top of the leaves will be slightly yellow and rolled up, the leaf flesh between the veins will also be yellow, the whole leaf shriveling, folding, the plant grows very slowly or no longer grows, shortening the internodes, obviously dwarfed, only 1/2 to 2/3 of the normal plant. The main symptom is that the leaf veins turn purple, the leaf blade thickens and hardens or becomes scorched, the newly grown leaf blade will appear yellow-green uneven spots, with uneven wrinkles or deformation, and in severe cases the leaf blade will shrivel up, and even if it grows to a mature plant at the end, it won't bloom and bear fruit normally. However, if the plant is infected with yellow leaf curl virus after flowering, the number of fruits will be reduced, and the fruits will become small and deformed, and will not be able to change color and ripen normally.
Distribution range: Tomato yellow leaf curl virus is mainly distributed in Africa, the Middle East and Southeast Asia, the Mediterranean region, Central America, Australia, Japan, China, India, Mexico, the Caribbean and the southern United States and other regions.
Infestation cycle: Tomato yellow leaf curl virus disease is mainly transmitted in a persistent manner by the sooty mold tick (Bemisia tabaci). Bemisia tabaci has more than 10 kinds of biotypes, of which B-type ticks reproduce quickly, strong adaptability, high efficiency of virus transmission, is the most important transmission medium of tomato yellow leaf curl virus. Once poisoned can exist in the body for life. Adults migrate between plants and plots to spread the virus; adults and egg masses are transported with seedlings to other places to spread the virus; egg masses are transported with seeds to other places to spread the virus. Mechanical friction and seeds do not transmit viruses, but grafting can lead to virus transmission.
Epidemiological pattern: tomato yellow leaf curl virus disease is transmitted by the sooty fly, generally plants in the seedling period that is infected with the virus, after planting 6-7 true leaves after the onset of the disease. Production experience in China has proved that the period of seedling and the degree of morbidity has a great relationship, the lower the temperature at the time of seedling, the lighter the onset of the disease; on the contrary, the onset of the disease is super heavy. Therefore, throughout the year in various stubble, autumn greenhouse tomato onset of the most serious, spring greenhouse tomato onset of the lightest, solarium overwintering stubble tomato according to seedling time and the degree of morbidity is not the same, before September began to seedling the onset of heavier, after September began to seedling the onset of lighter.
Prevention and control methods: 1, strengthen publicity, improve cognition. Through scientific and technological exchanges, technical training, on-site observation, network graphics and other ways, the disease and the harmful symptoms of the tobacco fly, disease development trend, severity, etc. to popularize and publicize, in order to mitigate the harm caused by the disease on the production. 2, strengthen the management of the field, cultivate high-quality strong seedlings. Before transplanting and planting must be thoroughly cleaned inside and outside the shed weeds and residual plants, the use of trisodium phosphate, formaldehyde and other comprehensive disinfection of the shed, and closed for more than 3 days. To achieve virus-free planting and avoid planting during the high incidence of sooty mold, old and dead branches and leaves should be removed during the growth period of tomato, and once the diseased ones are found, they should be pulled out immediately, taken out of the field and outside the shed, and preferably buried in the ground or destroyed. After the tomato harvest, the field in the shed should be handled in a timely manner, disinfected, residual plants removed, and buried deep underground or burned altogether. In the pruning, pruning, fruit picking, to first organize the healthy plants, and then organize the diseased plants, hands and tools should be disinfected first, to reduce the spread of viruses. 3, the implementation of crop rotation. Crop rotation can not only prevent diseases, but also improve the quality of vegetables and stabilize yields. Relatively serious disease areas and at least not tomato crops for more than 3 years of crop rotation, such as stubble planting cucumber, zucchini, beans, etc., it is best not to use continuous crop or inter-cropping, to avoid the violation of the virus and residues in the soil, reduce the incidence of diseased plants. 4, choose to plant disease-resistant or disease-resistant high-quality varieties of 
tomatoes once infected with the tomato yellowing variegated leaf virus, the effect of chemical control is too obvious, choose the Planting disease-resistant, disease-resistant high-quality varieties has become the main measure to prevent the virus, high-quality varieties should also be combined with the local climatic environment for planting. Resistant varieties bred through traditional and molecular breeding are mainly Shen Fan V1, Hang Miscellaneous No. 3, XINONG 2011, Baoli, etc. 5, physical and biological control of tobacco fly. Set up isolation nets to prevent insects, set up 30-40 mesh insect nets at the entrance of the shed and the vent to reduce the invasion of the cigarette louse. The use of yellow boards, yellow pots to trap adult whitefly, in the nursery greenhouse every 10 square meters of seedbed hanging 1-2 yellow sticky board for monitoring and trapping, in the high temperature season can be covered with film high temperature smothering method to get rid of residual insect sources. The use of predatory natural enemies (such as small black ladybugs) or parasitic natural enemies (such as Li aphid wasps) to reduce the number of whitefly, centralized and unified nursery, reasonable arrangement of stubble, the onset of the plots to avoid continuous cropping with lycopene vegetables to reduce the density of whitefly populations. 6, chemical control of whitefly. Pest monitoring is a prerequisite for chemical control, once found with the whitefly to be timely pharmaceutical treatment. Tobacco lice in a year will continue to 10 generations, it is easy to produce resistance, and on the basis of pharmaceuticals sometimes can not prevent the larvae into insects at the same time. Several agents can be mixed up and used at the same time, both the choice of abamectin, pesticide and other mixed agents 5-7 days to spray 1 time, but also the choice of brassinolide, red - indoethyl - brassicas, oligosaccharides, etc., to activate the body of the plant's autoimmunity, resistance to the infestation of the cigarette louse, to promote the rapid and healthy growth of the plant to reduce the disease.