This is a photo of a leaf affected by tomato early blight. The leaves are only affected by tomato early blight and do not suffer from tomato mosaic virus disease or tomato late blight tomato septoria leaf spot、Tomato bacterial mottle disease、tomato yellow leaf curl virus、two-spotted spider mite、tomato leaf mold And tomato target spot. The following is knowledge about tomato early blight:
Early blight of tomato, also known as verticillium, summer blight, is a plant disease that occurs on tomato caused by Streptomyces sp. infestation. Its most important feature is that whether it occurs in the fruit, leaves or the main stem of the disease spot, there are obvious whorls, so it is also known as whorl disease. Fruit spots are often found near the fruiting tip, stem spots are often found at the fork, and leaf spots occur on the leaf pulp.
Early blight of tomato is one of the most important diseases affecting tomato, which occurs throughout China, and both protected and open field cultivated tomatoes can be victimized. When the disease is serious, it can cause leaf drop, fruit drop and branch breakage, reducing yield by more than 30%. In addition to tomato, this disease can also damage potato, eggplant and pepper. 
Tomato early blight control should be taken to plant disease-resistant varieties and strengthen the cultivation and management of the main, with the chemical control of integrated measures.
Alias: Verticillium wilt, summer blight 
Pathogen: Streptococcus aurantium 
Crops affected: tomato 
Harmed parts: leaves, stems, fruits 
Pathogen characteristics: tomato early blight bacterial strain of Streptococcus aurantium (scientific name: Alternaria solani (Ell. et Mart.) Jones et Grout.), belongs to the semi-native subphylum, Streptococcus spp. fungi.
Morphological characteristics: Streptospore hyphae are septate and branched, and the older ones are darker in color. Conidiophores are drawn from the stomata of the necrotic tissue of the spot, erect or slightly curved, dark and short, solitary or clustered, with 1-7 septa, the size of 50-90 microns × 6-9 microns. Conidia arise from the tip of the conidial peduncle and vary greatly in shape. Most of them are clavate, with elongated colorless mouth cells at the tip, as long as or longer than the conidium itself, yellowish brown, with longitudinal and transverse septa, and with a size of 130-300 microns × 12-20 microns.
Physiological characteristics: Conidia are usually solitary, only in the medium for double chain growth. Physiological specialization of the bacterium has not been reported, but the infestation ability of the isolates as well as the morphology, culture traits and resistance to environmental conditions vary greatly. The temperature range for the growth of the pathogen was 1-45°C, with a suitable temperature of 26-28°C. In the presence of water droplets and temperatures of 16 to 34 ℃, conidia germinated after 1 to 2 hours, while in the appropriate temperature 28 to 30 ℃ after 35 to 45 minutes to germinate, a spore can produce 5 to 10 shoots tube.
Symptoms: Tomato early blight can attack leaves, stems and fruits. Leaf blades are damaged, the first dark brown or black round or oval small spots, gradually expanding, up to 1 ~ 3 cm, the edge of the dark brown, the center of the gray-brown, with concentric whorls. When the weather is humid, black mold grows on the spots, i.e. conidial peduncle and conidia. The disease often starts from the lower leaves of the plant, gradually spreading upward. When the disease is severe, the lower leaves of the plant are completely dead. Most of the stem spots occur at the branches, gray-brown, oval, slightly depressed, also concentric whorls. When the disease is severe, it can cause branch breakage. Seedlings often in the stem near the ground onset, the spot black brown. The late stage of the plant is often covered with black-brown spots on the stem, so it is called “black foot bladder”.
Fruit spots occur in the vicinity of the tip and cracked places, shaped or nearly round, brown or black-brown, slightly sunken, there are also concentric whorls, on which black mold grows. Diseased fruits often fall off early. The disease's spot whorl surface has a burr uneven material, this feature and the whorl is smoother tomato round grain disease is different.
Infestation cycle: the pathogen mainly mycelium and conidia overwinter in the soil with the remains of the diseased plant, and can also be attached to the seed overwintering. Mycelium survives in dried leaves for more than 1 year, and conidia can survive up to 17 months at room temperature. Thick-wall clasps can also be formed in infested stems and leaves, and can remain viable for about 7 months at -31 to 27℃. New conidia are produced the following year and are the source of the initial infestation. After seed germination, the pathogen carried on it first infects cotyledons, then invades the embryonic axis and extends to stems and leaves. The pathogen on the soil residue can directly invade the embryonic axis. The conidia on the spots are mainly spread by wind and rain, invading through stomata or wounds, and a few invade directly through the epidermis. Bacterial seed is an effective medium for the disease to spread over long distances, irrigation water, agricultural operations and insects can also spread, especially raindrops splashing, bring the disease to the plant, often caused by the lower leaves first, in the right conditions, the pathogen invades the host only 2 to 3 days after the formation of spots, and then after another 3 to 4 days, it can produce the most large conidia, causing many repeated reinfestation.
Epidemiological pattern: 
Meteorological factors: temperature and humidity are closely related to the onset of the disease. Temperature maintained at about 15 ℃, relative humidity above 80%, the disease began to occur. Temperature maintained at 20 to 25 ℃, the fastest development of the disease. Open field cultivation of heavy crop land, low-lying terrain, poor drainage and irrigation, planting too dense, greedy green futile growth, poor ventilation is heavier. Difference between day and night, high relative humidity, easy dew, tomato leaves often have a layer of water film, conducive to the occurrence and spread of the disease.
Host factors: the disease began to occur at the beginning of the results, the results of the full season heavy disease. At this time, a large number of plant nutrients to the fruit delivery, leaves, stems photosynthesis product content is low, so it is easy to be infected by the disease.
Management factors: good water and fertilizer supply, plant growth and healthy disease light. Crop land soil accumulated in the amount of bacteria, poor field drainage or planting too dense, resulting in high humidity between; lack of or grain field after replanting tomato basal fertilizer is insufficient, the onset of disease are heavy.
Prevention and control technology: 
Agricultural prevention and control: 1. Selection and breeding of disease-resistant varieties. 2. Before planting, combined with land preparation and fertilization to do a good job of field hygiene, timely removal of diseased leaves, residual branches and diseased fruits, and focused on the destruction of the 3. Strengthening of cutting and cultivation management. Adequate base fertilizer, timely fertilizer, or the use of vegetable special fertilizer, so that the fruiting period is not off fertilizer, to improve the host resistance to disease. Reasonable dense planting, timely kidnapping, pruning and playing bottom leaves, conducive to ventilation and light. Protected land tomato focus on ecological control, control temperature and humidity. Open field tomato attention to timely drainage after the rain, remove fallen leaves, residual branches and diseased fruit, combined with good field hygiene. Heavily diseased fields and non-tomato crops 2 to 3 years crop rotation. 4. Seeds with bacteria, with 52 ℃ warm soup soaked seeds 30 minutes.
Chemical control: registered fungicides: phenyl ether metronidazole, propiconazole, tebuconazole, isobutyl urea, doxycycline, zinc diclofenac, diclofenac manganese-zinc and so on. Specific formulations and application doses are: 40% chlorothalonil wettable powder 1125 g/ha, 500 g/liter isobutyl urea suspension 450 g/ha, 80% dicenta-manganese zinc wettable powder 2250 g/ha, 10% phenyl ether metronidazole water-dispersible granules 150 g/ha. The above dosage of agents are the active ingredient dosage, applied by spraying method. Seed treatment. Use 2% wuyishanin to soak the seed, or mix the seed with 50% gramicidin wettable powder at 0.4% of seed weight. Daylight greenhouse disinfection. Successive years of disease in the solarium, summer and fall using closed solarium method of high temperature smothering for a week. Or planting before the closed solarium, per mu with sulfur 1.5 kg, sawdust 3 kg, mixed and divided into several piles of ignition fumigation overnight. Or use 45% chlorothalonil fumigant fumigation.