This is a photo of a leaf affected by tomato late blight. The leaves are only affected by tomato late blight and do not suffer from tomato mosaic virus disease or tomato early blight tomato septoria leaf spot、Tomato bacterial mottle disease、tomato yellow leaf curl virus、two-spotted spider mite、tomato leaf mold And tomato target spot. The following is knowledge about tomato late blight:
Tomato late blight, also known as tomato blight, is caused by the infestation of the epidemic mold, occurring in the tomato disease. Tomato late blight can occur throughout the reproductive period of tomato, seedlings, leaves, stems and fruits can develop.
Tomato late blight is a devastating disease that is widespread in tomato growing regions. Especially in the winter facility cultivation of tomato, due to high humidity and low temperature easy to develop. Once the disease occurs, it spreads rapidly, generally reducing yields by about 50%, and in severe cases, destroying seeds and harvest.
Tomato late blight control methods are mainly based on agricultural control and chemical control. First of all, plant disease-resistant varieties, then crop rotation, strengthen field management, reasonable dense planting. When the disease occurs on a wide scale, spraying pesticides is the most effective way to prevent and control the disease, but pay attention to spraying liquid in a timely and thoughtful manner, in order to prevent the main.
Harmed plants: tomato 
Harmed parts: seedlings, leaves, stems, fruits 
Pathogen: Phytophthora infestans 
Pathogen characteristics: 
The pathogen is Phytophthora infestans (Mont.) De Bary). The fungus is a flagellate subphylum, epidemic mold fungi.
Morphological features: mycelium colorless, non-septate, in the host cell gap growth, with few filamentous sucker into the host cell to absorb nutrients. The white mold on the spot is the spore septum peduncle and sporocysts of the fungus. Sporangial peduncle 3-5 roots in clusters, from the leaf dorsal stomata protruding; diseased potatoes can also form a sporangial peduncle, by the lenticels or wounds exposed. Sporangial peduncle is slender, the upper part often has 3-4 branches, and its tip expands to form a sporangium. When a sporangium is formed the sporangial peduncle continues to grow, pushing the first sporangium aside in a lateral fashion and regenerating a second sporangium at its tip. In this way, each branch can produce several sporangia in a short period of time. All parts of the sporocarp that have borne sporocarps are swollen, so that the main peduncle of the sporocarp peduncle and the apex of the branches are unevenly coarsened. The sporangia are up to 1 mm long and about 10 µm wide at the base. The sporangium is colorless and single dumped, ovoid, 22-32 microns × 16-24 microns in size, with papillae at the tip, and is capable of producing 6-12 swimming spores under low temperature and high humidity speculative conditions, which are released from the papillae at the tip of the sporangium. Swimming spores are kidney-shaped, in the concave part of the lateral two flagella, swimming in the water for a few moments after the loss of flagella, and soon sprouted to produce bud tube invasion host. At high temperatures the sporocarp germinates directly to produce a bud tube to invade the host. The oospores are thick, yellow and 24-35 microns in diameter. In addition, the fungus can also form thin-walled conidia and thick-walled spores in the soil. Thin-walled conidia are 15-24 microns in diameter, brown in color, and both are pathogenic. Tomato late blight fungus is very strong commitment, there is physiological differentiation phenomenon.
Physiological characteristics: mycelium development temperature 24 ℃, the highest 30 ℃, the lowest 10-13 ℃. Sporangium formation temperature limit 3-36 ℃, relative humidity higher than 91%, or 18-22 ℃, relative humidity 100% optimal. Spore capsule germination, 10 ℃ conditions need 3 hours, 15 ℃ 2 hours, 20-25 ℃ 1.5 hours bud tube to invade. The bacterium only harms tomato and potato, and the pathogenicity of tomato is strong. Although the potato late blight bacterium is weak to tomato pathogenicity, but after repeated infestation of tomato, pathogenicity can be increased.
Symptoms: 
Tomato late blight can occur throughout the reproductive period of tomato, seedlings, leaves, stems and fruits can develop.
Seedling disease: the initial leaves produce dark green water-soaked spots, and gradually spread to the main stem, so that the base of the stem thinning, water-soaked constriction, and finally the whole plant wilting or folding, high humidity when the surface of the disease bearing a white mold layer.
Leaf development: mostly from the plant in the lower leaf tip or leaf margins, gradually spreading to the upper leaves and fruits, initially dark green, irregular watery spots, the junction of disease and health without obvious boundaries. Air humidity is large, the spot will rapidly expand, the edge of the back of the leaf can be seen a layer of white mold. When the air is dry, the spots are light brown, then turn dark brown and dry up.
Culm disease: Culm disease, the first watery, gradually dark brown or black-brown rot, soften the tissue of the diseased stem, water supply is impeded, the serious part of the disease broken, the plant wilted.
Fruit onset: more from the green fruit near the fruit stalk onset, the spot was inconspicuous oil stained spots, gradually to the surrounding development of cloudy irregular spots, the edge of the spot has no obvious boundaries, and later gradually become dark brown (like rust), the spot is slightly sunken, the fruit is hard and not soft rot, the periphery of the unchanged red, when wet, the surface of the spot produces a layer of white mold, when the onset of the disease of severe fruit disease appeared stripe-like cracks.
Infestation cycle: the pathogen mainly in the protected cultivation of tomato and potato tubers overwintering, sometimes can fall into the soil on the disease residue overwintering. The pathogen spreads by airflow or rain, directly invades from the stomata or epidermis, and forms a central plant in the field, which carries out multiple repeated infestations and causes the disease to become prevalent. 
Epidemiological pattern: suitable climatic conditions: tomato late blight is a moderate temperature and high humidity type of disease, daytime temperatures in 22-24 ℃, night in 10-13 ℃, relative humidity in more than 80% can be infested with plants, especially in the rainy and weak light conditions are more likely to occur in the epidemic. Varieties of poor disease resistance: plant susceptibility to tomato varieties, easy to cause the occurrence of tomato late blight epidemic. Cultivation conditions are unfavorable: plant depression, low-lying terrain, poor drainage, resulting in excessive field humidity, conducive to the occurrence of the disease; soil infertility, plant weakness, or biased application of nitrogen fertilizers caused by plant growth, are conducive to the occurrence of the disease. Tomato and tomato vegetables: many areas due to less arable land, vegetable crop rotation is difficult, there are tomatoes and tomato vegetables planted or tomatoes and tomato vegetables between sets, once the last crop of tomato late blight late blight disease occurs seriously, it is for the next crop of tomatoes planted to provide a large number of sources of disease.
Prevention and control methods: 
Agricultural prevention and control: 1. planting disease-resistant varieties: China's domestic more resistant to tomato late blight late blight varieties of yu hong 2, round red, in the vegetable 5, in the vegetable 4, jia hong, strong abundance, jia powder 10 and other varieties. 2. rotate crop and change stubble: to prevent the continuous cropping, should be carried out with the cruciferous vegetables for more than 3 years crop rotation, to avoid and potato planted next to each other. 3. cultivation of non-diseased strong seedling: the disease bacteria are mainly in the soil or the disease residue Overwintering, therefore, seedling soil must be strictly selected without planting the soil of tomato crops, and promote the use of nutrient bowl, nutrient bags, hole tray, etc. to cultivate disease-free seedlings. 4. Strengthening of field management: adequate fertilizer, the implementation of the formula of fertilizer, to avoid the partial application of nitrogen fertilizers, and the application of phosphorus, potassium fertilizer. After planting to prevent weeds in a timely manner, according to the different varieties of fruit habit, reasonable pruning, centering, pitchfork, reduce nutrient consumption, promote the growth of the main stem. 5. Reasonable dense planting: according to the different varieties of the length of the fertility period, the fruit habit, the use of different ways of dense planting, such as: double culm pruning of each acre, planted about 2,000, single culm pruning per acre planted 2,500-3,500 plants, reasonable dense planting, can improve field Reasonable dense planting, can improve the field ventilation and light conditions, reduce field humidity, reduce the occurrence of disease.
Chemical control: Protected areas using smoke method, in the early stages of tomato disease began to spray 72.2% Prilosec water 800 times, or 40% copper methosulfate wettable powder, 72% Kelu wettable powder 400-600 times, 64% alum wettable powder 500 times, 10% Shih Gao 1,500 times, 50% pohain isobutyl urea (Hohan High Tech) 1,000 times, etc., 7-10 days between spraying 1 time, continuous control of 4 times, and then spraying 1 time. Spray 1 time every 7-10 days, and control continuously for 4-5 days. In the widespread occurrence of epidemic disease, spraying pesticides is the most effective way to prevent and control tomato late blight, but pay attention to spraying liquid in a timely and thoughtful, prevention-oriented. Commonly used agents are: 58% mefenacet manganese zinc wettable powder 500 times liquid, 60% kill alum wettable powder 500 times liquid, 75% chlorothalonil wettable powder 600 times liquid, 50% carbendazim wettable powder 500 times liquid; prevention and control of late blight of tomato late blight disease can be used 77.2% Prilosec in water 800 times liquid. Stem spots can be coated with high concentration of liquid, which can be used as 56% pyrimethanil chlorothalonil 1000 times liquid, 50% metribuzin wettable powder 200 times liquid. Whether it is a diseased leaf spray or a diseased stem coating, every 7-8 days 1 time, 2-3 times in a row, but pay attention to 10 days after the application of medicine can not pick the fruit on the market.